Airbyte 1.4 release notes (#51053)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/release_notes/v-1.4.md

# Airbyte 1.4.0

Happy new year! Airbyte version 1.4.0 was released on January 16, 2025. We’re excited to share new improvements and changes to the Airbyte platform.

## 🚀 Platform Changes

Platform changes improve Airbyte for everyone with a self-managed instance.

### Configure the schema refresh rate

> Use the new environment variable, `DISCOVER_REFRESH_WINDOW_MINUTES`, to set how often Airbyte refreshes schemas, in minutes. The default is once per day in self-managed instances. The maximum is once per minute. Set this to 0 to disable automatic schema refreshes. [Learn more about configuring Airbyte](../operator-guides/configuring-airbyte.md).

Author: @bgroff sounds like this depends on the Helm chart applied, can you confirm 1440 is indeed the default?

# Airbyte 1.4.0

Happy new year! Airbyte version 1.4.0 was released on January 16, 2025. We’re excited to share new improvements and changes to the Airbyte platform.

## 🚀 Platform Changes

Platform changes improve Airbyte for everyone with a self-managed instance.

### Configure the schema refresh rate

> Before starting a sync, Airbyte can run discovery to refresh schemas. However, running discovery has a performance cost. For large databases with thousands of tables, discovery can take a while, and it might not be necessary before every sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the start of a sync, Airbyte occasionally re-runs schema discovery to detect changes in your source, such as new fields or a change in column type. But running schema discovery has a performance cost, and may not always be necessary before every sync. 
```

> Use the new environment variable, `DISCOVER_REFRESH_WINDOW_MINUTES`, to set the minimum number of minutes Airbyte will wait to refresh a schema. By setting a larger number, you delay automatic schema refreshes and improve sync performance. The default in self-managed instances is 1440 (once per day). The lowest interval you can set is 1 (once per minute).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may now use a new toggle, `DISCOVER_REFRESH_WINDOW_MINUTES`, to set the minimum number of minutes Airbyte will wait to refresh the schema for your sources. By setting a larger number, you run automatic schema detection less frequently, which can result in gains in sync performance. The default configuration in Airbyte Open Source is `1440`, which refreshes schemas every 24 hours. The lowest interval you can set is `1`, which refreshes schemas before every sync.
```

```yml title="values.yaml"
worker:
  env_vars:
    DISCOVER_REFRESH_WINDOW_MINUTES: 1440 # Airbyte automatically refreshes schemas no more than once per day (1440 minutes).
```

>  Set this to 0 to disable automatic schema refreshes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Set this to 0 to disable automatic schema refreshes. All schema refreshes will need to be done manually via the Airbyte UI or API.
```
